////
Copyright © 2016-2021 The Eclipse Foundation, Cirrus Link Solutions, and others

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the Eclipse Public License v. 2.0 which is available at
https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0

Sparkplug®, Sparkplug Compatible, and the Sparkplug Logo are trademarks of the Eclipse Foundation.
////

// set default value if assetsdir hasn't been defined
ifndef::assetsdir[:assetsdir:]

[[components]]
== Sparkplug Architecture and Infrastructure Components

This section details the infrastructure components implemented.

.Figure 3 - MQTT SCADA Infrastructure
plantuml::{assetsdir}assets/plantuml/infrastructure-components.puml[format=svg, alt="MQTT Scada Infrastructure"]


[[components_mqtt_servers]]
=== MQTT Server(s)

MQTT enabled infrastructure requires that one or more MQTT Servers are present in the
infrastructure. The only requirement that the Eclipse Sparkplug specification places on the
selection of an MQTT Server component in the architecture is it is required to be compliant with a
subset of the MQTT specification. Specifically it must meet the requirements defined in the
link:#conformance_sparkplug_mqtt_server[MQTT Server Conformance Section]. The MQTT Server should
also be sized to properly manage all MQTT message traffic.

One can implement the use (if required) of multiple MQTT servers for redundancy, high availability,
and scalability within any given infrastructure.

[[components_mqtt_edge_node]]
=== MQTT Edge Node

In the context of this specification, an MQTT Edge Node is any MQTT v3.1.1 [MQTTV3.1.1] or v5.0
[MQTTV5] compliant MQTT Client application that manages an MQTT session and provides the physical
and/or logical gateway functions required to participate in the topic namespace and payload
definitions described in this document. The Edge Node is responsible for any local protocol
interface to existing legacy devices (PLCs, RTUs, Flow Computers, Sensors, etc.) and/or any local
discrete I/O, and/or any logical internal process variables(PVs).

[[components_device_sensor]]
=== Device/Sensor

The Device/Sensor represents any physical or logical device connected to the MQTT Edge Node
providing any data, process variables or metrics.

[[components_mqtt_enabled_device]]
=== MQTT Enabled Device (Sparkplug)

This represents any device, sensor, or hardware that directly connects to MQTT infrastructure using
a compliant MQTT v3.1.1 or v5.0 connection with the payload and topic notation as outlined in this
Sparkplug Specification. Note that it will be represented as an Edge Node in the Sparkplug topic.

[[components_primary_host_application]]
=== Primary Host Application

A Primary Host Application is an MQTT client application that subscribes to MQTT Sparkplug Edge Node
originated messages. It is deemed 'primary' by the Edge Node. An Edge Node may be configured to
modify its behavior based on one specific Sparklug Host Application being online or offline. This
specific Host Application is referred to as the Edge Node's 'Primary Host Application'.

The Primary Host Application is often also referred to as the SCADA Host or IIoT Host. In typical
SCADA/IIoT infrastructure implementations, there will be only one Primary Host Application
responsible for the monitoring and control of a given MQTT Edge Node. Sparkplug does support the
notion of multiple Primary Host Applications for any one Edge Node. This does not preclude any
number of additional Sparkplug Host Applications from participating in the infrastructure that are
in either a pure monitoring mode, or in the role of a hot standby should the Primary Host
Application go offline. In addition, there could be multiple Host Applications which are each the
Primary Host Application for some subset of Edge Nodes connected to the MQTT infrastructure.

[[components_sparkplug_host_application]]
=== Sparkplug Host Application

A Sparkplug Host Application is any Sparkplug MQTT client that consumes the real-time Sparkplug
messages or any other data being published with proper permission and security.

[tck-testable tck-id-components-ph-state]#[yellow-background]*[tck-id-components-ph-state] A
Sparkplug Host Application MUST utilize the STATE messages to denote whether it is online or offline
at any given point in time.*#
